# FitnessWebsiteProject

This Fitness web site has been created as a project work for OAMK first year Information Technology studies. The task was to implement a web app/site based on the chosen topic and to include certain functionalities such as register, login, editing data, and commenting. Implementation was to be done using TypeScript, NodeJS, Express and PostgreSQL.

The web site includes fitness-related blog texts that users can read and comment, a web shop to buy courses related to fitness and wellness, body mass index and calorie calculators, and short stories about successful user experiences.

## Team members

>Shu Sheng, Huyen Nguyen, Shamima Shammi, Shehara Wadu Mesthri and Liisa Törmäkangas

---

## How to install and run the application
Clone the repository to your computer. SQL commands to create database tables and to store blog stories and courses for web shop can be found in db.sql file. In the server folder you need to create a .env file where you can store your database password (DATABASE_PASSWORD='') and your secret key (SECRET_KEY='') for token creation. In your code editor terminal or cmd, cd to /server folder and run **npm install** to install local dependencies for the libraries. You can start the server by running **npm run devStart**. Finally, from the /client folder, open file index.htlm in your browser.

---

## The techniques used
### Frontend
Client side is using **TypeScript**. TypeScript was compiled to ES6 version of JavaScript by **TypeScript compiler** (tsc) and tsconfig.json file. The styling of the pages was done using **Bootstrap** and **CSS**.

### REST API
**Express** framework (for http endpoints) and **TypeScript** is used to create the **Node.js** server of the web site. Relevant typing support libraries for TypeScript were installed.

**PostgreSQL** is used as a database and **PG** is used to access Postgres database from Node.JS app.

**Cors** is enabling client to connect to the server.

**Concurrently** library is used to compile TypeScript into JavaScript.

Hashing and encrypting user passwords is done by **bcryptjs**, and web tokens are generated by **jsonwebtoken** library. Environment variables are managed by **dotenv** library.

---

## Images
Images used on the web pages have been retrieved from the following free image sources:

[unsplash.com](https://unsplash.com/)

[pixabay.com](https://pixabay.com/)


---

## Blog stories and other texts

Blog texts, introduction text and happy user testimonials were written by **ChatGTP** based on given framework and some keywords.

---

## Link for Figma designs

UI Figma designs can be found [here.](https://www.figma.com/file/Ue6heavQiI2VgJlcUJp0hR/UI-design---Fitness-website?node-id=0%3A1&t=K3lXatu8Y4xE1sjB-1)
